---
title: "Daily Standups"
date: 2024-10-26T15:51:34-04:00
draft: true
tags: ["meetings", "standups"]
---
I don't have some revolutionary new take on daily standups or anything like that. This isn't some grand reworking of any part of the agile manifesto. It's another rant. Eventually, if you're a developer, you will have to take part of a daily standup call, where everyone has to give an update on the previous day and state what they plan to do during the day. I understand why this is a valuable meeting in the ideal case: everyone on the team gets updated on what everyone else did and is doing without having to repeat themselves. However, very rarely is the ideal case what actually happens. Usually, way too many people end up on the standup call, and then you end up tuning out people you don't want to listen to, and then you end up tuning out everyone. Which defeats the purpose of the standup. Also, maybe I am not working on a small enough team, or maybe my work is spread out or siloed enough, but very rarely do people give updates on the level that I need. For instance, if I am working on something with one other person, we probably have a pretty similar understanding of approximately what the state of the project is, but I would want to know more details about the last issue that he ran into and how he overcame it. However, since we both feel like we have to give an update that is distilled down for the other 18 people on the call, neither of our updates really end up being that useful to each other, and they are probably being tuned out by the people we are distilling it down for. As soon as the standup is done, I am sending him a message or getting on another call with him anyways, so there was not really a point to the standup. 

So what is the thought? My hunch is that it's a way for a manager to get up to speed on what everyone did the day before. It's also an opportunity for them to jump in and assist with issues that need their input, which does happen pretty frequently. But one thing I don't enjoy is when two teams both need manager input on something at the end of the standup, and one of them has to wait their turn while the other one actually goes into detail about the issue they're having. I would much rather have a way for the team members to request some time with the manager to resolve the issue, and they could set aside some time and a time that works for everyone. Now, I will say that I understand that the manager is trying to block their time so that they aren't getting interrupted at all hours of the day, but I think that setting aside some time every morning for "office hours" or "support" could be a good middle ground where they are generally more available between 9 and 10 am, for example. 

What I really think would be the best solution 90% of the time though is async updates. Isn't that the whole point of a tool like Jira?